# 33 - Error and message report

sc_report:
  1. represents an instance of a report as generated by function sc_report_handler::report.
  2. accessible to the application if the action SC_CACHE_REPORT is set for a given severity level and message type.
  3. may be caught by the application when thrown by the report handler.

sc_report_handler:
  provides features for writing out textual reports on the occurrence of exceptional circumstances and for defining application-specific behavior to be executed when those reports are generated.

sc_severity represents the severity level of a report:
  1. enum sc_severity {SC_INFO = 0, SC_WARNING, SC_ERROR, SC_FATAL, SC_MAX_SEVERITY};
  2. there are four severity levels. SC_MAX_SEVERITY is not a severity level. It's an error to pass SC_MAX_SEVERITY to a function requiring an argument of type sc_severity.

sc_verbosity provides the values of indicative verbosity levels that may be passed as arguments to member function set_verbosity_level of class sc_report_handler and to member function report of class sc_report_handler:
  enum sc_verbosity {SC_NONE = 0, SC_LOW = 100, SC_MEDIUM = 200, SC_HIGH = 300, SC_FULL = 400, SC_DEBUG = 500};

sc_actions represents a word where each bit in the word represents a distinct action. More than one bit may be set, in which case all of the corresponding actions shall be executed:
  1. enum {
     SC_UNSPECIFIED  = 0x0000, //is not an action, serves as the default value meaning that no action has been set.
     SC_DO_NOTHING   = 0x0001, // is a specified action
     SC_THROW        = 0x0002,
     SC_LOG          = 0x0004,
     SC_DISPLAY      = 0x0008,
     SC_CACHE_REPORT = 0x0010,
     SC_INTERRUPT    = 0x0020,
     SC_STOP         = 0x0040,
     SC_ABORT        = 0x0080
    }
  2. each severity level is associated with a set of default actions, which can be overridden by calling member function set_actions.
  3, Default actions:
    a) #define SC_DEFAULT_INFO_ACTIONS ( SC_LOG | SC_DISPLAY )
    b) #define SC_DEFAULT_WARNING_ACTIONS ( SC_LOG | SC_DISPLAY )
    c) #define SC_DEFAULT_ERROR_ACTIONS ( SC_LOG | SC_CACHE_REPORT | SC_THROW )
    d) #define SC_DEFAULT_FATAL_ACTIONS ( SC_LOG | SC_DISPLAY | SC_CACHE_REPORT | SC_ABORT )

void report(sc_severity, const char* msg_type, const char* msg, [int verbosity], const char* file, int line) generate a report and cause the appropriate actions to be taken:
  1. use the severity passed as the first argument and the message type passed as the second argument to determine the set of actions to be executed as a result of previous calls to functions set_actions, stop_after, suppress, and force.
  2. create an object of class sc_report initialized using all five argument values and pass this object to the handler set by the member function set_handler.
  3. not persist beyond the call to member function report unless the action SC_CACHE_REPORT is set, in which case the object can be retrieved by calling function get_cached_reports.
  4. be responsible for determining the set of actions to be executed. The handler function set by function set_handler is responsible for executing those actions.
  5. maintain counts of the number of reports generated. These counts shall be incremented regardless of whether actions are executed or suppressed, except where reports are ignored due to their verbosity level, in which case the counts shall not be incremented.

set_actions():
  1. set the actions to be taken by member function report when report is called with the given severity level, message type, or both.
  2. replace the actions set by the previous call for the given severity, message type, or severity-message type pair.

stop_after(): report shall call sc_stop when exactly the number of reports given by argument limit to function stop_after have been generated for the given severity level, message type, or severity-message type pair.

get_count(): return the count of the number of reports generated for each severity level, each message type, and each severity-message type pair maintained by member function report.

Verbosity level:
  1. int set_verbosity_level(int): set the maximum verbosity level to the value passed as an argument, return the previous value of the maximum verbosity level.
  2. int get_verbosity_level(): return the value of the maximum verbosity level.